You talk to Claude Code like you would
talk to any AI assistant. When entering
your prompt, here are some things that
you can consider that can both protect
and make things easier for you.
You can choose whether Claude auto
accepts every file change it suggests or
require it to ask you for explicit
permission each time.
With shift plus tab, you can cycle
between both modes. In auto accept mode,
it will automatically approve an edit or
creation of a file, but ask your
permission to run commands.
There isn't a right or wrong way. It's
just whatever you feel the most
comfortable with.
Within this shift tab menu is the plan
mode.
Plan mode takes your prompt and uses
read-only tools to analyze your code
base and do research on your suggested
implementation. It will also ask you
questions on items that it wants
clarification on.
It then returns to you a long detailed
plan that it can execute on in more
detail. Plan mode works great for
planning complex changes or doing a safe
code review. A lot of the time you're
asking Claude to do multi-step
implementations towards a feature and
this is exactly what plan mode excels
at. So,
why don't we give it a try?
I have an application here that
desperately needs a
dark mode toggle. So, I'm going to use
Claude Code to implement this for me.
So, I'm in the root directory of my
project and I'm going to hit the shift
tab a couple times to go into plan mode.
Then, let's write out the prompt. My app
needs a dark mode implemented across the
entire app. Can you create a toggle
switch on the header that allows user to
toggle between light mode and dark mode?
I need you to find a good contrast color
that works based on my existing light
theme.
And
let's let Claude plan this out.
And after reviewing, I think it looks
pretty good.
At the end of all this, we can see
explicitly what Claude did and how it
came to its conclusion.
And
the dark mode is looking pretty good.
Awesome.
>> [music]
>> When using Claude Code, try to be as
descriptive as possible with your
prompt. If you want to stay in the loop
at every step, you can do that. Use plan
mode to let Claude get a little bit more
in the nitty-gritty with what you want
to achieve before executing on that
plan.